# Bookshop-Management-System
***
## General description of the system
This is an application to manage the financial life of a bookshop. It allows a bookshop owner to maintain his business in an automated manner by generating live financial reviews of the business, providing detailed overview of the employees, and allowing easy modification of the available stock. It has three levels of users: Administrator, Manager, and Librarian. Each of which has different permissions and features. <br>
The administrator user is at the top of the hierarchy of users. It has the permission to create other users and manage their levels of access. It can manage the overall income and expenses on the finances tab. Can manipulate the bookshop's stock by adding, removing, or editing books. Finally, the administrator has the right to manage and manipulate the information of the employees. It can view statistics about how many books each librarian has sold or how much money each librarian has generated during a period. Can see the number of books a manager has ordered. All these statistics can be filtered by date and come with preset business goals and quotas.<br>
Moving on, the manager user has the right to manage the book stock. This is the primary role of a manager. This user gets notified in case the book stock is empty or there are books which have no copies or only few copies left. The manager just like the administrator can edit the information of the books and can purchase books when needed or remove them from the stock. Finally, the manager can also see the statistics of each librarian. These statistics come with a date filter which can be used to set the time frame. <br>
Lastly, the librarian user has the permission to search books and sell them. For each transaction carried by a librarian the system maintains the information so that it can be used for the financial overview later on. It also creates a printed version of the bill for the transaction. It is noteworthy to say that the librarian does not have any access over other users or over the book stock. It can only interact with the books that are available in stock.<br>
For all the users of the system there is a profile section where they can modify their personal information such as the name, username, password, and so on. There is also a messages feature which allows the users to exchange messages with each other. They can access these messages in the inbox found on the dashboard. It is worth it to mention that the librarian and manager can have their access removed partially or completely by the administrator. In such cases they are denied the usage of some or all features provided by their dashboard.<br>
